A part of layering security is hardening systems.
This means applying optimal security settings to
your systems and applications to protect against attacks,
misuse, or even human error.
Rather than creating your own technical security standards,
it's better to follow what others are doing.
Fortunately, we have a resource for that.
The Center for Internet Security,
provides benchmark guides for common networking devices,
operating systems, and applications.
The CIS guides, provide a target for optimal security on specific technologies,
and can be used to compare an organization systems against those targets.
The Center for Internet Security benchmarks website, cisecurity.org, CIS benchmarks,
provides over 140 technical guidelines
providing best practices for securing the systems configuration.
CIS benchmarks are distributed free of charge in PDF format.
There are so many examples of their benchmarks
when you scroll down on their website that you can see.
Let me show you some of
the Microsoft benchmarks provided by the Center for Internet Security.
If you need to secure your Internet Information Server,
that's Microsoft IIS or Microsoft Office,
or if you're using Windows desktop or server,
they have guides for how to secure it.
Let's look at the CIS securing Microsoft Windows desktop benchmark.
You'll need to sign up on their website,
to see this specific guide.
When you do, you'll get an email with a link to this PDF.
The table of contents for the CIS benchmark for Windows desktop,
gives you an idea of what it contains.
Basically, it's a long list of recommended configuration settings.
As an example, let's look at just some of the account policies.
The table of contents gives you an idea of what this CIS benchmark contains.
It's basically a long list of
recommended configuration settings for your Windows desktop.
Let's look at some account policies.
When you're setting a password policy,
this will tell you the different settings.
For example, history should remember 24 passwords.
How many days you should take before you reset a password?
Is 60 according to Center for Internet Security.
Minimum password, length 14 characters.
These are the optimal settings.
If you go through this document,
you'll see that there are over 1300 pages of
these different configuration settings to really lock down a Microsoft desktop.
Use this as an example,
as you're securing your Windows desktop systems.
This is just a quick taste of the benchmarks
available through the Center for Internet Security.
You should take time to explore their website,
and their tremendous resources.